```markdown

Here is a summary of the algorithms, instructions, and useful information from the `CAD\_Lec\_02.pdf` file.



\## Useful Information



\### Reduced Incidence Matrix

\* Any node in a connected graph can be chosen as a \*\*reference node\*\*.

\* The voltages of all other nodes are then measured with respect to this reference node.

\* The row corresponding to this reference node is removed from the full incidence matrix to create the \*\*reduced incidence matrix (A)\*\*.



\### Relation between Network Topology Matrices

The following formulas describe the relationships between the different network matrices:

\* $C\_{L} = -B\_{T}^{t}$

\* $C\_{L} = A\_{T}^{-1} \* A\_{L}$

\* $C = A\_{T}^{-1} \* A$



---



\## Algorithms and Instructions



\### How to Apply KCL (Kirchhoff's Current Law)

\* You can apply KCL using the \*\*incidence matrix (A)\*\*.

\* The matrix equation is: \*\*$A \* J\_B = 0$\*\*

&nbsp;   \* Where \*\*A\*\* is the reduced incidence matrix.

&nbsp;   \* Where \*\*$J\_B$\*\* is the vector of branch currents.

\* Multiplying these matrices yields the set of KCL equations for the non-reference nodes.

\* \*\*Example from slide:\*\*

&nbsp;   \* $-j\_a + j\_b - j\_d = 0$

&nbsp;   \* $-j\_b + j\_c + j\_e = 0$

&nbsp;   \* $j\_a - j\_c - j\_f = 0$



\### How to Apply KVL (Kirchhoff's Voltage Law)

\* You can apply KVL using the \*\*tie-set matrix (B)\*\*.

\* The matrix equation is: \*\*$B \* V\_B = 0$\*\*

&nbsp;   \* Where \*\*B\*\* is the tie-set matrix.

&nbsp;   \* Where \*\*$V\_B$\*\* is the vector of branch voltages.

\* Multiplying these matrices yields the set of KVL equations for the fundamental loops.

\* \*\*Example from slide:\*\*

&nbsp;   \* $-v\_d - v\_f + v\_a = 0$

&nbsp;   \* $v\_d + v\_e + v\_b = 0$

&nbsp;   \* $-v\_e + v\_f + v\_c = 0$



\### How to Find Branch Currents from Loop Currents

\* You can express the branch currents in terms of the loop currents.

\* The formula is: \*\*$J\_B = B^T \* I\_L$\*\*

&nbsp;   \* Where \*\*$J\_B$\*\* is the vector of branch currents.

&nbsp;   \* Where \*\*$B^T$\*\* is the transpose of the tie-set matrix.

&nbsp;   \* Where \*\*$I\_L$\*\* is the vector of loop currents.



\### Example Instruction

\* An example problem is given: From a given A matrix, calculate the B and C matrices and verify the answer using the graph obtained from the A matrix.

